<!-- src/templates/AboutProject.wikitext — paste as the content of a new
    page titled "About This Wiki", then link to it from site navigation. -->
== What This Is ==

The Black History Foundation Wiki is a community-built archive for
discovering, researching, and sharing Black history — especially the
history that lives in family memory and community record before it ever
reaches an archive, a textbook, or a museum.

== Why We Built It ==

In 1860, the ''Clotilda'' — the last known ship to bring enslaved Africans
to the United States — arrived in Mobile Bay. The community of Africatown
that its survivors founded told the story of that ship for more than a
century. Historians dismissed it. It wasn't until 2019, when the wreck was
finally located and confirmed, that the outside world caught up to what
the community had known all along.

That gap — between what a community knows and what gets counted as
"verified" — is the reason this wiki exists. Community accounts, oral
histories, and family records don't need institutional permission to be
true. But they do need a place to be documented, discussed, corroborated,
and — when the evidence comes together — recognized. This wiki is that
place.

== How To Use It ==

* '''Browse''' the homepage's discovery rail for recently added and
  actively-researched articles, or browse by category (People, Places,
  Events, Eras).
* '''Research''' an article's Sources section to see what's backing a
  claim — every source is tagged with its type (archival document, oral
  history, newspaper, and more) and a confidence rating (verified,
  single-source, or disputed), so you always know how solid the ground is.
* '''Contribute''' what you know — a new article, a citation, a correction
  — and see your work reflected automatically on your contributor profile.
* '''Post a research lead''' for a story you believe but can't yet prove,
  tagged with exactly what it needs to move forward: archival access,
  translation, fieldwork, funding, expertise, or digitization.
* '''Discuss''' any article or lead on its Talk page.

== Our Ultimate Goal ==

Every unresolved research lead on this wiki represents a piece of history
still waiting on the resources to confirm it — the same gap that kept the
''Clotilda'' a community secret for over a hundred years. Our goal is to
close that gap faster, in the open, with the community doing the work.

Looking further ahead: as research on this wiki matures — corroborated,
discussed, sourced — the best of it should have a path to permanence
beyond this wiki. We intend for this wiki to eventually connect with
[https://bh-dao.vercel.app Black History DAO], where the community votes
on what gets permanently preserved on-chain. That connection doesn't exist
yet — this wiki's job today is to be the place where the research happens
and matures. The DAO's job, when the two connect, will be to make the
strongest of it permanent.

Some leads need more than research time — they need money for an archive
visit, a translator, a dive team, an expert consultation. Every research
lead on this wiki that's tagged as needing funding is already built to
carry a link to a specific fundraising campaign for that exact need. We
intend for those links to eventually connect to Charity Coin, a fundraising
platform we're building to support projects like this one. That connection
doesn't exist yet either — but the moment it does, the path from "we know
this happened, we just can't prove it yet" to "here's exactly how to help
prove it" will be a single click.

Beyond preservation and funding, some of what's gathered here may one day
help train an AI model built specifically on community voice and
research — the kind of model that doesn't yet exist, because the training
data it would need doesn't typically get collected this way. Like the DAO
and Charity Coin connections above, this isn't built yet — contributions
are only ever used this way with the contributor's explicit, separate
consent, never by default. See our [[Terms of Use#10. AI Model Training
Consent|Terms of Use]] for the full explanation.

== How This Compares ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Site !! What it does well !! Where this wiki is different
|-
| Wikipedia || Broad, well-governed, general-purpose encyclopedia || No built-in way to track how confident a claim is, or to flag what unresolved history needs to move forward
|-
| Ancestry.com / FamilySearch || Deep genealogical records, family-tree tools || Built for tracing your own lineage, not for community discovery and discussion of shared history
|-
| Fandom-style wikis || Polished, community-editable, great discovery UX || Built for entertainment franchises — no concept of source confidence, oral-history disclaimers, or research needs
|-
| BlackPast.org || Respected, expert-written reference on Black history || Written and reviewed by historians, not community-editable — no place for a family's account to live while it's still being proven
|}

== How This Serves Our Mission ==

The Black History Foundation's mission is to empower the African diaspora
through education, cultural celebration, and the preservation of our
history — believing that protecting our past is the key to a stronger,
more unified future. This wiki puts that mission into practice across all
four of the Foundation's pillars: '''education''' (every article is a
teaching resource), '''technology''' (the citation and research-leads
tooling built into this wiki), '''cultural preservation''' (a home for
accounts that would otherwise stay undocumented), and '''community
engagement''' (research is done together, in the open, not behind an
institution's walls).
