<!-- src/templates/HelpContributing.wikitext — paste as Help:Contributing
    Linked from the Main Page footer and the sidebar's "About and
    Contribute" section — this page never existed before, so both links
    404'd until now. -->
== How to Contribute ==

This wiki grows from community knowledge — family memory, oral history,
and research that hasn't made it into an archive yet. Here's how to add
to it.

=== Create an account ===

[[Special:CreateAccount|Create an account]] to edit pages, start new
articles, and post research leads. Once you're signed in, your own
contributor profile tracks your edits and citations automatically.

=== Add or edit an article ===

Use the '''edit''' link at the top of any page. New articles should
include an infobox, a breadcrumb, and — wherever possible — sources under
a "Sources" heading, so readers can see how solid the ground is.

=== Cite your evidence ===

Every claim is stronger with evidence behind it. Use
{{Evidence|title=...|type=...|reliability=...}} to add a source, tagging
what kind of evidence it is (a document, a newspaper, an oral history,
DNA or archaeological findings, and more) and how confident you are in it
(verified, single source, or disputed) — even a single-source or disputed
account is worth recording.

=== Post a research lead ===

If you know a story that isn't provable yet — a family account, a
half-confirmed record, something that needs archival access, translation,
fieldwork, funding, expertise, or digitization to move forward — post it
on the [[Research Leads]] board rather than waiting until it's fully
proven.

=== Questions ===

Reach out through [[Contact]] if you're not sure where to start.
