<!-- src/templates/TermsOfUse.wikitext — paste as the content of a new
    page titled "Terms of Use", then link to it from site navigation.
    HTML comments don't render, so this doesn't affect the legal-review
    notice below being the first VISIBLE thing on the page. -->
<div class="bhf-legal-notice">
'''This page is a draft.''' It has not been reviewed by a lawyer. Do not
treat this as final or legally binding until The Black History Foundation
has had these terms reviewed by qualified legal counsel.
</div>

''Last updated: {{CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{CURRENTYEAR}}''

== 1. Acceptance of Terms ==

By accessing and using this wiki, you accept and agree to be bound by
these Terms of Use. If you do not agree to these terms, please do not use
this wiki. These terms apply specifically to this wiki and are separate
from — and do not replace — the [https://www.tbhfdn.org/terms-of-use
Terms of Use] for The Black History Foundation's main website.

== 2. Contributing to This Wiki ==

Unlike the main tbhfdn.org website, this wiki is built on community
contribution. By submitting an article, citation, research lead, or any
other content to this wiki, you agree to license your contribution under
the [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License] (CC BY-SA) — the same open license
Wikipedia uses. This means your contribution can be freely reused, edited,
and reshared by others, including outside this wiki, as long as they give
appropriate credit and share any changes under the same license. This
license applies only to content contributed to this wiki, not to
tbhfdn.org's own site content, which remains under the main site's Terms
of Use.

== 3. Community Conduct ==

You agree to use this wiki for lawful purposes only, to contribute in good
faith, and not to submit content that is knowingly false, defamatory, or
infringes on someone else's rights. Vandalism, harassment, and bad-faith
editing may result in your contributions being reverted and your access
restricted.

== 4. Oral History & Community Accounts ==

This wiki exists specifically to hold community accounts and oral
histories that may not yet have institutional or archival confirmation.
Every source on this wiki is tagged with a confidence rating —
'''verified''', '''single-source''', or '''disputed''' — so readers can see
at a glance how well-corroborated a claim is. A single-source or disputed
account is presented as a community record, not as verified fact. We make
no representation that any un-verified account is accurate, and we
encourage readers to check a source's confidence rating before treating
any claim as settled.

== 5. Third-Party Links ==

This wiki may contain links to third-party websites, including
tbhfdn.org, Black History DAO, and sources cited in articles. We are not
responsible for the content, privacy practices, or availability of these
external sites. The inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement.

== 6. Disclaimer of Warranties ==

This wiki is provided "as is" without warranties of any kind, either
express or implied. We do not warrant that the wiki will be uninterrupted,
error-free, or that any community-contributed content is accurate or
complete.

== 7. Limitation of Liability ==

To the fullest extent permitted by law, The Black History Foundation shall
not be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or
punitive damages arising from your use of this wiki or reliance on any
content within it.

== 8. Changes to These Terms ==

We reserve the right to modify these Terms of Use at any time. Changes
will be effective immediately upon posting to this wiki. Your continued
use of the wiki after any changes constitutes acceptance of the modified
terms.

== 9. Contact ==

If you have questions about these Terms of Use, please contact us through
[https://www.tbhfdn.org/contact our contact page].

== 10. AI Model Training Consent ==

Some contributions to this wiki may, in the future, help train an AI
model built specifically on community voice and research — distinct from
the general-purpose corpora most AI models are trained on. This is
separate from the [[Terms of Use#2. Contributing to This Wiki|CC BY-SA
license]] covering general reuse of your contribution.

Setting a <code><nowiki>{{Evidence}}</nowiki></code> or <code><nowiki>{{ResearchLead}}</nowiki></code> entry's <code>aiConsent</code> field to
"yes" means:

* You agree this specific contribution may be used to train such a model.
* You affirm you have the right to grant this permission on behalf of
  anyone whose voice, account, or story is recorded in it — not only your
  own words. If your contribution is someone else's oral history,
  transcribed by you, this consent should reflect their agreement, not
  only yours.
* You understand that once a model has actually been trained using your
  contribution, withdrawing consent afterward cannot remove that
  contribution's influence from an already-trained model. Consent can
  only be meaningfully withdrawn before any such training has occurred.

Leaving <code>aiConsent</code> unset, or set to anything other than "yes", means your
contribution will not be used for this purpose. Your contribution is fully
welcome either way — this consent is entirely separate from your ability
to contribute to and be credited on this wiki.
